content/posts/100-days-of-gatsby/index.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Learning With the 100 Days Of Gatsby Challenge'
slug: 'learning-with-the-100-days-of-gatsby-challenge'
date: '2020-01-02'
---

I have been interested in learning Gatsby for quite some time now but I found it hard to commit to it. This year I decided to challenge myself to complete the [100 Days Of Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/blog/100days/) coding challenge in order to learn Gatsby from scratch.

And also, there's this:

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-theme="light">
  <p lang="en" dir="ltr">
    This year I’m going to finally start working on redoing my personal
    website...
    <br />
    Said this last year and the year before for the last 3 years.
  </p>
  &mdash; Andrés Rodríguez (@andrexish) <a href="https://twitter.com/andrexish/status/1212377346700914688?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">
    January 1, 2020
  </a>
</blockquote>

The first challenge involves making [a blog from scratch](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/blog/100days/start-blog/) which means that I will be not only redoing my website using Gatsby but also will use it to document everything I have learned in the process.

I started from the beginner-focused tutorial and even though I know my way around the fundamentals of Gatsby -- like setting up the environment, tooling and React -- it never hurts to recap the basics. The fundamentals section is definitely a solid zero-to-Gatsby experience with a very good read on JSX and some of the core React concepts.

And then I started the part of the tutorials that I was waiting for which was actually building a blog! I learned everything from querying data from different sources, using transformers and programatically add fields to nodes and create pages. It was by far one of the nicest experiences I have ever had when starting to learn something from scratch. This is what I ended up with:

![First Challenge](images/first-challenge.png)

## What's next?

Now that I have a good headstart I am going to keep working on the website. That means working a little bit more on the landing page, write a bio, add social media links and whatever comes next 🔥.

Commit message:

add description to splash and use styled components from theme-ui

content/posts/100-days-of-gatsby/index.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Learning With the 100 Days Of Gatsby Challenge'
slug: 'learning-with-the-100-days-of-gatsby-challenge'
description: 'Using this initiative to finally redo my website'
date: '2020-01-02'
---

I have been interested in learning Gatsby for quite some time now but I found it hard to commit to it. This year I decided to challenge myself to complete the [100 Days Of Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/blog/100days/) coding challenge in order to learn Gatsby from scratch.

And also, there's this:

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-theme="light">
  <p lang="en" dir="ltr">
    This year I’m going to finally start working on redoing my personal
    website...
    <br />
    Said this last year and the year before for the last 3 years.
  </p>
  &mdash; Andrés Rodríguez (@andrexish) <a href="https://twitter.com/andrexish/status/1212377346700914688?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">
    January 1, 2020
  </a>
</blockquote>

The first challenge involves making [a blog from scratch](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/blog/100days/start-blog/) which means that I will be not only redoing my website using Gatsby but also will use it to document everything I have learned in the process.

I started from the beginner-focused tutorial and even though I know my way around the fundamentals of Gatsby -- like setting up the environment, tooling and React -- it never hurts to recap the basics. The fundamentals section is definitely a solid zero-to-Gatsby experience with a very good read on JSX and some of the core React concepts.

And then I started the part of the tutorials that I was waiting for which was actually building a blog! I learned everything from querying data from different sources, using transformers and programatically add fields to nodes and create pages. It was by far one of the nicest experiences I have ever had when starting to learn something from scratch. This is what I ended up with:

![First Challenge](images/first-challenge.png)

## What's next?

Now that I have a good headstart I am going to keep working on the website. That means working a little bit more on the landing page, write a bio, add social media links and whatever comes next 🔥.
