src/content/posts/lazyvim-telescope-hidden-files.md, before:

---
title: "Show hidden files with Telescope in LazyNvim"
description: "How to configure Telecope to show hidden files in LazyNvim so dotfiles are visible while still respecting .gitignore"
publishedAt: 2023-01-19
tags:
  - neovim
---

When working on my dotfiles I was wondering why I couldn't see my `.config` folders. Telescope hides these hidden files by default. Here's how I set up Telescope to show hidden files using the LazyNvim distro:

```lua
-- lua/plugins/telescope.lua
local Util = require("lazyvim.util")

return {
	"nvim-telescope/telescope.nvim",
	keys = {
		-- enable finding hidden/dot files
		{
			"<leader><leader>",
			Util.telescope("files", { hidden = true, no_ignore = false }),
			desc = "Find files (root dir)",
		},
		{
			"<leader>ff",
			Util.telescope("files", { hidden = true, no_ignore = false }),
			desc = "Find files (root dir)",
		},
		{
			"<leader>fF",
			Util.telescope("files", { cwd = false, hidden = true, no_ignore = false }),
			desc = "Find files (cwd)",
		},
		{
			"<leader>fF",
			Util.telescope("files", { cwd = false, hidden = true, no_ignore = false }),
			desc = "Find files (cwd)",
		},
	},
}
```

Personally, I like how LazyNvim configures Telescope to search for files in a directory with `<leader><leader>` and `<leader>ff` so I decided to keep those same keybindings and just add the `hidden` and `no_ignore` options.

Commit message:

Add reasoning behind using lazyvim.util

src/content/posts/lazyvim-telescope-hidden-files.md, after:

---
title: "Show hidden files with Telescope in LazyNvim"
description: "How to configure Telecope to show hidden files in LazyNvim so dotfiles are visible while still respecting .gitignore"
publishedAt: 2023-01-19
tags:
  - neovim
---

When working on my dotfiles I was wondering why I couldn't see my `.config` folders. Telescope hides these hidden files by default. Here's how I set up Telescope to show hidden files using the LazyNvim distro:

```lua
-- lua/plugins/telescope.lua
local Util = require("lazyvim.util")

return {
	"nvim-telescope/telescope.nvim",
	keys = {
		-- enable finding hidden/dot files
		{
			"<leader><leader>",
			Util.telescope("files", { hidden = true, no_ignore = false }),
			desc = "Find files (root dir)",
		},
		{
			"<leader>ff",
			Util.telescope("files", { hidden = true, no_ignore = false }),
			desc = "Find files (root dir)",
		},
		{
			"<leader>fF",
			Util.telescope("files", { cwd = false, hidden = true, no_ignore = false }),
			desc = "Find files (cwd)",
		},
		{
			"<leader>fF",
			Util.telescope("files", { cwd = false, hidden = true, no_ignore = false }),
			desc = "Find files (cwd)",
		},
	},
}
```

Personally, I like how LazyNvim configures Telescope to search for files in the context of root directories -- this is very useful in monorepo setups. I kept that behavior by using LazyNvim's telescope utilities from `lazyvim.util`. I then remapped the default keybindings for `<leader><leader>` and `<leader>ff` and set the `hidden` and `no_ignore` options.
